---
published: true
title: Shipping like an Artist
layout: post
tags: [Artist, Shipping, Life, Learning]
categories: [Random]
---
Recently i stumbled across a book that turned out to be a valuable gem. I picked up this obscure looking book by the name **The Art Spirit** by *Robert Henri* by utter luck and it turned out to be one of the best guides ever written by anyone . Here are some of his and my own key takeaways that i have found to be useful over the years.

**Who is an Artist..?** : A artist today no longer holds a brush and buckets of paints and works on a canvas. There are numerous people who treat their work to be pieces of art ; collectible , rare and masterpieces in their own right. From Musicians to Writers to Dancers to Programmers and Designers , it is not what it means literally but rather the process that makes you one. Now when these artists do what they do best they tend to never ever do it like everyone does ; that’s what makes them what they are. Some people are hit by a synergy of thought of something that they want to bring it onto the canvas of life. Not every masterpiece turned out to be a master piece in the first place it was iterated , edited , composed , re-done upon several times. In Henri’s own worlds “To paint is to know how to put nothing on canvas, and have it look like something when you stand back.”

**The mastery of masterpieces** : It is about doing anything , anything at all questionably well than anyone else. Now artists rarely are in competition with other artists , they are in a tide with themselves ; swiveling , fighting against themselves to push themselves to even greater heights thereby producing master pieces that are arguably better than the ones before. An artist disturbs, enlightens , upsets and opens ways for better understandings. The rules for creating one are really simple , you can work in any medium ; be it a piece of code or a parts of a rocketship just know that the reward for creating the art is simply in creating it not outside of it. Its about opening a book when others close it ; showing there are more pages to read. Just know that you are not here to do what others have ever done ; just know what your old masters have done look at their composition but never ever fall into the trap of thinking you need to do the same. They set wonderful conventions and it worked for them ; they made their language you make yours they can help you , all the past can help you.

**Becoming an artist** : THE SKETCH HUNTER has delightful days of drifting about among people, in and out of the city, going anywhere, everywhere, stopping as long as he likes— no need to reach any point, moving in any direction following the call of interests. He moves through life as he finds it, not passing negligently the things he loves, but stopping to know them, and to note them down in the shorthand of his sketchbook, a box of oils with a few small panels, the fit of his pocket , or on his drawing pad. Like any hunter he hits or misses. He is looking for what he loves , he tries to capture it. It’s found anywhere, everywhere. Just know that the most beautiful art is the art which is freest from the demands of convention, which has a law to itself, which as technique is a creation of a special need. “The appreciation of art should not be considered as merely a pleasurable pastime. To apprehend beauty is to work for it. It is a mighty and entrancing effort, and the enjoyment of a picture is not only in the pleasure it inspires, but in the comprehension of the new order of construction used in its making.” **DON’T WORRY ABOUT THE REJECTIONS**. Everybody that’s good has gone through it. Don’t let it matter if your works are not “accepted” at once.The better or more personal you are the less likely they are of acceptance. Just remember that the object of painting pictures is not simply to get them in exhibitions. It is all very fine to have your pictures hung, but you are painting for yourself, not for the jury.

One of my favorite lines among them all was :
**“It is harder to see than it is to express. The whole value of art rests in the artist’s ability to see well into what is before him.”**