---
published: true
title: Keeping at it ..!
layout: post
---
You walk in thinking about how to convey the deal with a large org fails (This was something that was life changing for you and your company or so you told them). Your CTO looks up puzzled , your designer thinks everything is well especially since they haven't slept for 4 nights straight , your developers look into you they are nothing less than solders who have quashed bugs in your product day in and out backhandedly. 

**2 Weeks back** : Out of the blue you get a call from someone that literally makes you and your team jump when they see the caller ID. You talk to them , learn about their **requirements** and ~~tell them~~ beg and plead them to try you out. Then comes the problem , they don't want to store their Data in our AWS powered platform your Backend Guy snarls. If only the servers were literally bare metal , he did throw them at himself. He says he will look at it , only to tell you that the core API that we use to make our product awesome isn't really supposed to work in their environment. We figure out the knuckle heads , **drop them dead** is all that comes from him. Next up is the tussle with designer , ~~i~~ we want this deal to happen badly , so i tell him to prep something whacky and in tone with the clients design guidelines only to know they haven't updated it. He drops the swear word *hushedly* Frigging corporate guys , i tell him to take that logo of theirs , and copy their site completely and may be CSS will help us figure it out. The VP of Product of Big Brother calls , asks me if we can take it forwards , i put him on loudspeaker and say We will run perfectly ; no response for a few seconds and then he drops a timeline and asks if its okay i tell him its perfectly okay. The guys hate me for telling this , i know too **But** this will turn our fortune or so i ~~think~~tell.

** D Day 1 ** : This is the big day , my designer has figured everything out from the serif typefaces to creating a almost replica of their logo that can render  perfectly in 4K. God knows , what his friends thought when he was did not answer their calls. Then your CTO comes and puts in all the tricks from  every random book (and articles) he could ever get his hands on. Then the CTO and your designer take the job of becoming your CEO (Chief English Officers) to make sure we are grammer nazi proof (Actually any Nazi free) , then your backend comes in , he has wrote up a whole library in Go that somehow puts the ~~same~~ better class of performance and security that we offer to others only in their ~~cloud~~ servers. We finish all the shit this calls for a celebrations ; and we do by getting all the other work from customer service requests to making sure Uncle Sam pays the bills. We will raise the next round of funding if we crack this deal who knows we may not need to do it at all if they lock in to our platform. We send in the first batch of stuff we did for them with a customized PPT as well as Pages to PDF presentations (God knows who uses what). Then we drop in at their office , i talk about my vision and how i am killing it running my own biz. Then CTO , Designer , Backend and Lead Engineers have their say , their sales guys don't get shit so they bring in someone who knows some stuff about what we are selling. He bombards you with tons of questions and gives a go then i am asked the classic Indian question **Kitna Deti hain..?** (How much will it improve our X shit) you delve into the number talks , 2X this to 10X this. We will think about it. And at the end of the day i get a mail , we need something else too. Our CTO thinks integration is hard (Ever Heard Of Plug and Play assholes..?). We will need to ask for budget from our CFO and get it sanctioned . And as if devil heard my screams inside i medium throws me an article with the headline that goes like Getting Enterprise Customers is really hard and it takes months (Actually years if need be). I try to stay cool , i am supposed to be the Mr Optimist or so everyone thinks. We will do it , i lie to myself and my team. My phone buzzes , someone gets me an inside scoop that one of our competitor is also perusing a parallel deal i thank him for that. Then you drop in an email , saying we will even work something out about the costs too. Fuck  MRR , ARR or even Revenue ; we need to catch this big fish i think. They give me a go ahead sign , our integration begins.

**D Day 2** : They ~~we~~ are supposed to ~~complete the~~ integrate~~-ion of ~~ our stuff with theirs. We are mostly on call with them the whole day , our devs and their devs skype in , some go down there. And after a few hours , i get a call saying its done. *They kick in the new servers , it works we are live and pingin..g* **kaboom** ; celebration turns into disruption. That crazy son of a asshole hasn't called the API properly in some random god knows where code base. Oh , wait its basically this tiny line that was not upto ~~their~~ our standards and they haven't whitelisted our IP's shit they are on Java when their sales team said PHP. And the ETA increases logarithmically , irony is our revenue and market penetration was supposed to get that honor. The developers aren't happy with the way its turning out to be , i am shit scared about our competition taking off this deal so i push them to actually take the work into our hands and deal with it. A guy backs out (And he has every reason to) , CTO gets whats worrying me so he ends up taking the task. And we give them a new ETA ; something we will meet.


**D Day 3** : 



 
